# Auto Builder

A handy utility to generate "safe" builders for your rust types.

The issue with the builder pattern usually is some fields are required. If those fields are not provided before calling build then a run time error will be thrown. The builders generated by this package do not have this issue as the `build` method will not be available unless all required fields are set. Trying to call `build` before all required fields are set will result in a compile time error 🥳.

## Usage

Don't actually use this package... There's a better ones:

- https://crates.io/crates/const_typed_builder
- https://github.com/idanarye/rust-typed-builder
- https://crates.io/crates/safe-builder-derive

```rust
use auto_builder_derive::Builder;

#[derive(Builder)]
struct A {
    x: i32,
    y: i32,
    z: String,
}

// Compiler error - missing `y`
let a = A::builder()
	.set_x(1)
	.set_z("abc")
	.build();

// Success!
let a = A::builder()
	.set_x(1)
	.set_y(2)
	.set_z("abc")
	.build();
```

### What gets generated?

When a type derives `Builder` the following is generated:

1. A struct with the name + Builder is generated. E.g. for struct `Foo`, `FooBuilder` is created.
2. A new method is implemented for that builder and a `builder` method is implemented for the original type in-order. These can both be used to created a new builder.
3. A setter method is implement on the builder for each field in the struct. The names are setter_ the field name. E.g. for field `bar` the method would be `set_bar`.
4. A build method is implement for the builder when all required types are set.

### Optional

Optional fields work as expected. If a field's type is `Option<T>` then the setter is not required to be called before build. If the setter is not called the field will be assigned to `None`.

### Default

A required field can have a default value set. The field type must implement the `Default` trait and then the attribute `[auto_builder(default)]` can be set on the field. If the setter is not called the value from the default method will be assigned to the field.

```rust
use auto_builder_derive::Builder;

struct A {
    x: i32,
    y: String,
}

impl Default for A {
    fn default() -> Self {
        A { x: 10, y: String::from("Hello world") }
    }
}

#[derive(Builder)]
struct B {
    #[auto_builder(default)]
    a: A,
    b: String,
}

let b = B::builder()
	.set_b("Hello world").build();
```

## How does this work?

In order to only make the `build` method available when all required fields are set we track which fields are set using generics. For more details see https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k8kd22jNcps
